Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-02-02T08:15:40+01:00

====== task 3 ======
Created Tuesday 02 February 2021

Task 3 is described as follows (in norwegain)
Oppgave #3

Type: Fullstack

Teknologi: Valgfritt

Oppgave: Lag en nettside der du bruker Steam for å logge inn. Presenter brukernavn og avatar fra Steam etter at du har logget inn.

https://steamcommunity.com/dev/

===== Notes =====

Making a website from scratch is something I don't have much experience with, however I do have some.
What experience I do have with making a website from scratch, is with Python Flask.
Preliminary research on the task suggest I need to apply for a Steam web API key, and to apply for one, I would need a domain name.
That's quite the barrier. Especially since I would want to test from my local PC, rather than setting up on some free hosting site somewhere with a free domain name.

I do not know how strict this domain name request is, or what it functions is in regerstering it with steam, but filling in "google.com" did yield a key.
I attempt either that or some free domain name if the alternative idea below don't work out.

That alternative idea? Well, the same page that mentions the API, also have a section on the "Steam OpenID Provider".
This provider will yield the user id, and I should be able to fish out the username and avatar from that alone, presuming that information is publically avavible without the above APIs.

Since I have decided to use python, I need a "OpenID library" for Python. Luckly, there is one. The repo comes however with a warning of lacking documentation and maintenace.
We'll see how this goes.

-

Before I could even begin writing code for the task, I needed to make sure I were able to get a hello world program working.
I did. It's been a while since I used Flask, but it's getting back to me.

-
In case I need it, I found a place that hosts python flask servers.
http://kvagram.pythonanywhere.com/
-

I have tried to understand both the "OpenID" libraries avavible for Python, but I can't make heads or tails out of the documentation.

I may get back to this later, but for now, I have no idea how to do this.

- 
My stuggle with this, seems to be that I have chosen a non-standard combination of tools.
Flask is a nice tool to make standalone websites, but the openID libraries for Python seem to not have been developed with a beginner in mind.
I may find better documentation and or tutorials for another platform.

I have decided to attept to learn some php, and reattempt task 3 using php.
-
Having found a tutorial for Steam's openID on PHP,  I'm following that.

Needing an API key, I registered for one using my IP address as domain name (apperently that worked)

-
After a bit more research, I finally understand why I need to to register a domain name, and what the key is meant to be used for.
When you click the login button, you are sendt to Steam's server.
Steam then needs to know where to redirect the client back after login.
So with this, it is impossible for me to do any kind of testing for this on localhost. I need a server with a valid static ip or domainname.
Since I don't have access to the router here at home, I can't port forward to set up a server from home, nor do I know if my IP is static.
This means, I need to find a free hosting service.

I'm pretty sure I can't use the python host I sat up earlier with PHP, so I need a more basic free server host.
-
Found a free host, and it has ftp support for ease of updating the files.
domain name is now autisticduck.000webhostapp.com
-
Trivia: today I learned php don't concat string with + operators like most languages I know, but instead a . operator.
Facenating.



